# Minutes

## Mantid PMB Meeting 12

**Minutes of: 2018-09-13T09:00-4:00**

## In Attendance

```
* ESS - Taylor, Rod
* ILL - Gonzalez
* ORNL - Granroth, Peterson, Proffen, Ramirez-Cuesta, Leal
* ISIS - Draper, Perring, Greenfield, Manuel, Cottrell
```

## Changes to the PMB

No changes

## Pending issues / report on actions of the last PMB meeting

* Mantid Developers + User meeting dates @ILL, Grenoble: Date not yet decided. Somewhere in April 2019. A Doodle will be sent to the PMB members so all represented facilities can write their availabilities. Final date should be decided by September 21st.

* Report on other facilities contribution to the ISIS Mid-term scientist requirements spreadsheet. No progress.
  
* European review: European facilities have no progress on this matter.

* New WS specifications: ESS hired two new developers. Significant progress should be achieved in the next months.

## PM Report

* N. Draper reported on the Report previously shared with the PMB Members.
* Release dates: SNS deploys Mantid in the April shutdown and in the summer. The closer the release to these dates the better for SNS.
  * April release moved to the end of March
* N. Draper gave an overview of the features to be implemented in the next versions of Mantid.
  * PMB Members agreed on the need of a document describing the workflows for every facility.
* Mantid needs to collect better statistics for the errors, specially for auto reduction. 

## TSC Report

* ILL needs to nominate a member
* Mantid Workbench: The following should be available soon.
  * Custom GUIs
  * Instrument view

## Discussion the proposal to implement a project managers team

* PMB members are concerned with code base diversification
* Need to be defined:
  * the o role of the project management team
  * the o role of the project manager
  * constitution
* A document will the cycled through the PMB / Put in a source repository so every member / facility can edit it.

## Facility News

* SNS increased the source power
* Mantid at the ILL appears to be on the right path. Interfaces are the next step.
* Both ISIS and ESS are hiring / hired new staff to work on Mantid.

## AOB

* There will be a 2 days Mantid developers meeting at NOBUGS 2018.
  * P. Peterson is the main organiser.

## Summary of actions

* Mantid Developers + User meeting dates @ILL, Grenoble. Final date should be decided by September 21st. Doodle: https://doodle.com/poll/68gmnwmubr9tqbb7
* Facilities should contribute to the ISIS Mid-term scientist requirements spreadsheet.
* European review: By the next meeting European facilities should have a clear view of this review.
* Mantid needs to collect better statistics for the errors, specially for auto reduction. (Action?)
* A document will the cycled through the PMB / Put in a source repository so every member / facility can edit it (Taylor?).
* Leal will send a doodle for the next PMB meeting (December / January?)