Minutes
=======


## Mantid PMB Meeting 

**Minutes of: 2018-01-31T10:00-4:00**


## In Attendance

    * ESS - Taylor
    * ILL - Gonzalez, Bush
    * ORNL - Granroth, Peterson, Proffen, Leal
    * ISIS - Draper, Cottrell, Griffin

## Topics


### Report on Developers Meeting:

- Feedback from the participants is needed:
    - Nick will send the first draft to Pete + Doug. A final version will be sent out to the participants.

- Heterogeneity among user groups. Some groups clearly needed more time (e.g. diffraction).

- Proposals for the Next Developers Meeting
    - Dates should be decided as soon as possible because of travel arrangement (visas, etc)
    - Proposed dates and Venue:
        - ILL, from mid january to 5 February (when ISIS starts)

- Lack of end-user participation. Actions are needed to guarantee more end-user participation in the next user meeting. Instrument scientists should directly contact and encourage instrument users participation?

- It was noticed that `Rebin` and `Rebin2D` calculate uncertainties differently. This problem must be addressed.

### General topics

- We need a clear road map for the next 12-18 months of the underline functionality (framework)
    - Facilities need to decide what is this roadmap.
    - It's important not to have developers involved in this process.

- Problems persist with cross facility code duplication.
    - Facilities are not fully benefiting from the Mantid collaboration and code base.
    - Same science is viewed and implement differently in each facility.
    - Perhaps we need management to promote and encourage cross facility talks about science methods and techniques.
    
- Mantid needs to focus on innovation:
    - Identify people to investigate new technologies, modernisation and long term view of the project (e.g. 10 year plan).
    - Perhaps talk with X-Ray people and see what synchrotrons are doing.
    - Talk with people that analysed Mantid as a possible solution and took other path.
    
### Mantid future releases

- Next release in March

- Mantid 4:
    - Date is not fixed.
    - The two workbenches will probably coexist in the same release (e.g. 2 icons for Windows users).
    - There are issues among the PMB with the incapability of the new workbench in dealing with the scientists requirements.
    	- There's fear that this can be seen as a failure for the new workbench.
    - The release of Mantid 4 and the new workbench features will first be agreed by the PMB.

### Resourcing of the core team

- Resources per er facility:
	- ISIS: Martin, Roman and Nick when availabe.
	- ESS: All team.
	- ORNL: Pete and Steve
- It was agreed that the highest priority of the core team is the refactoring of the workspaces (to better reflect the science).
- A specification of the new workspaces types should be presented to the PMB the latest next year in the Users / Developers meeting.

### Face to face review

- The center of these face to face reviews is to judge how scientific computing is driving the science effectiveness.
- Europe and US reviews
    - ORNL is having a software review starting 5 February.
    - ISIS will wait for the ORNL feedback to share their review
- An European review (ISIS + ILL + FRM2 (??)) should be organised soon.

### Next meeting:

- May 2018


## Summary of actions

- Leal will email the PMB for the next meeting
- Identify people to look into the underline functionality (12-18 months plan)
- Identify people to look into innovation (10 year plan)
- Organisation of the European review.





