# Minutes

## Mantid PMB Meeting 11

**Minutes of: 2018-06-12T09:00-4:00**

## In Attendance

```
* ESS - Taylor, Rod
* ILL - Gonzalez, Bush
* ORNL - Granroth, Leal
* ISIS - Draper, Cottrell, Perring, Griffin, Greenfield, Manuel
```

## Changes to the PMB

- Tom Griffin from ISIS is leaving the PMB.

## Pending issues / report on actions of the last PMB meeting

1. Mantid underlying functionality
   * ISIS has developed a list with medium term requirements of the scientists.
   * The list is going to be shared with the other members to identify commonalities across the facilities.
   * The main objective is to identify areas of collaboration and not replicate functionalities in Mantid.

3. Organisation of the European review.
   * ESS and ILL are not ready yet to have a review.
   * By the end of the current year European facilities hope to come with a plan/date.

4. Dates and location of the next users meeting:
   * Location: ILL, Grenoble, France
   * Dates: Towards the end of January

5. ORNL feedback on the software review
   * The major point was a lack of unified reduction for SANS. DOE will respond in July.

## Mantid 4

* PMB requested a clean plan how Mantid 4 will be released. PMB members are concerned that Mantid 4 is released in a too Beta version (with too much lack o features) making the feedback from users overly negative. 
* New schedule for April after the users meeting.

## PM Report

* N. Draper reported on the Report previously shared with the PMB Members.
* Regarding the Mantid usage, there's an overall concern about old versions of Mantid still beeing used. 

## TSC Report

* No delegation from P. Peterson. No points discussed.
* Simon from ESS is partially working on the new Workspaces (WS). J. Taylor will share the new WS specifications / work progress among the PMB.

## AOB

* Tessella contract expires in August this year. A call for applications is underway.

## Summary of actions

* Leal will create doodle for the next meeting PMB meeting ASAP.
* Nick will upload GitHub the spreadsheet with ISIS Mid-term scientist requirements.
  * The facilities are expected to contribute to this list.
* European review: By the next meeting European facilities should have a clear view of this review.
* Date of the next Users Meeting has be defined by June 26th.
* J. Taylor will forward the new WS specifications / work progress to the PMB.