Minutes
=======


## Mantid PMB Meeting 

**Minutes of: 2017-07-19T09:00-4:00**


## In Attendance

    * ESS - Taylor, Rod
    * ILL - Gonzalez, Mutti, Bush
    * ORNL - Granroth, Peterson, Proffen, Leal
    * ISIS - Draper, Pascal, Cottrell

## Topics


### Face to Face review of the project:

- Discussion and future directions of the Mantid project
- Involve a large number of end users and fewer instrument scientists
- Take advantage of the SNS software review in February of 2018 and form two review groups: Europe and America
- Include Mantid end users of multiple facilities, if possible those who have used Mantid in multiple facilities.
- End users should compare and contrast, highlighting missing features.
- End users of Julich and HCB should also be included
    

### Users meeting in January:

- Organisation ongoing:
    - Dates, Web page, OK
    - Working on the Agenda
- More scientific contributions are welcome
- All facilities are likely to have users representation.


### Developers meeting in January:

- All facilities are likely to have developers participating in the workshop.
- Julich representation has schedule conflicts.
- Draper will contact JPark


### Training Material

- SNS has used 2 data sets of training during the ORNL Users meeting.


### ILL Progress

- Support for TOF + Back Scattering are part of the official release.
- Powder diffraction will be tested during the March startup
- SANS should be in production in 1 year from now


### TSC / Core Team Report

- Core team has selected three main high priority items to start with:
    - Crash reporting
        - TSC is in charge of the design and implementation.
    - Project Structure: Python vs C++ with extensions
        - Evaluation of the advantages and disadvantages of each approach
        - Improvements to the python API 
    - Workspaces 2.0
- This will be further discussed at the Developers Workshop
- Desire to completely separate the workbench, modules and the Core. For example, the fitting engine should not be part of the core as the users may want to use a different fitting engine of their preference.


### PMB Report

- Release dates were pushed to March and June.
- Draper will email PMB the future release dates.


### Mantid 4.0

- Keep both Mantid Plot and the new Workbench for at least one year until users get used to the new interface.
- Draper will email the PMB (by Janury 8th) the plan for distributing the two GUIs.
- Facilities should have "observers" for the Mantid 4.0 project management.


### Next meeting:

- It will happen during the Users / Developers meeting. The date is likely to be Wednesday January 31st at 9AM EST.
- Based on the final Users / Developers meeting Agenda, Leal will email the PMB with the schedule of the next PMB meeting.


## Summary of actions

- Leal will email the PMB for the next meeting
- Draper will contact JPark about participation on the developers workshop
- Draper will email PMB the future release dates.
- Draper will email the PMB (by Janury 8th) the plan for distributing the two GUIs (the old Mantid Plot and the new Workbench)


