Optimized multi-dimensional event storage with space filling curves
Daniel Nixon
ISIS Neutron and Muon Source, STFC, UK
Author Email: daniel.nixon@stfc.ac.uk

Multi-dimensional datasets are fundamental to the processing of scattered
neutron data, where the full momentum transfer coordinates, dE, and additional
dimensions, such as temperature and pressure are required to understand material
behaviour. Since scattering is often anisotropic from materials of interest, a
sparse multi-dimensional data structure is critical to allow storage of
observations at the required resolution. Indeed, storing and processing of
sparse multi-dimensional datasets is a common practice.

An effective sparse multi-dimensional data model requires three key traits;
efficiency in creating the structure (both in time and memory cost), memory
efficiency of maintaining the structure for the duration of
analysis/visualisation and ability to access or query the structure as the use
case sees fit.

Space filling curves are a method of distributing spatial data such that both
spatial locality and memory locality are preserved, allowing for optimized
access and searching. In the case of the Z-order space filling curve, as chosen
for the implementation covered in this talk, creation of the data structure sees
a significant improvement.

This presentation discusses the application of space filling curves to storing
reduced multi-dimensional neutron scattering data and its advantages and
limitations in comparison to what is already offered by Mantid, but covers many
features that are general to working with sparse, multi-dimensional data
including the requirements for leveraging such data structures and design of
efficient data access methods.
