Agenda
======

Pinned Topics
-------------
* Review any outstanding external [pull request](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/pulls?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+-label%3A%22State%3A+In+Progress%22) or [issues](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/issues)?
* Any updates to [tracking design table](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/TSC-TrackingDesignProposals.md)?
* Find volunteer for presentation at next mantid review meeting

New Items
---------
* [Status of new workbench](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/projects/9)
* Status of SliceViewer replacement (Hahn)
* Dataset: https://github.com/mantidproject/dataset/pull/10

Minutes
-------

Attendees: Arnold, Draper, Gigg, Hahn, Heybrock, Nixon, Peterson, Savici, Soininen, Vardanyan, Whitfield

The design of
[Dataset](https://github.com/mantidproject/dataset/pull/10) was
approved and merged by a vote of 6 yes and 1 no.  There was a fair
amount of discussion surrounding the implementation/roll-out of the
design. The decision was that as the implementation progresses, the
TSC should continue to be involved as there were various parts of the
design which are expected to change.
