Agenda
======

Pinned Topics
-------------
* Review any outstanding external pull request or issues? (Lamar)
* Any updates to [tracking design table](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/TSC-TrackingDesignProposals.md)?
* Find volunteer for presentation at next mantid review meeting

New Items
---------
* Tracking [Maintenance Tasks](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/MaintenanceTasks.md) and modernization
* [Dataset design document](https://github.com/mantidproject/dataset/pull/2) discussion.
* Status of move to C++14 - MSVS
* [Status of new workbench](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/projects/9)
* Status of SliceViewer replacement (Hahn)

Minutes
-------
Attendees: Draper, Gigg, Hahn, Heybrock, Moore, Peterson, Savici, Vardanyan, Whitfield

* Design documents will be reorganized into folders per year and a "rejected" folder (Martyn)
* Maintenance tasks are finish moving to MSVS2017 and finish off the oldest open PRs
* Maintenance tasks will be moved to a project board similar to workbench (Pete)
